SMOKING HABITS AND PSYCHOLOGICAL NEEDS

Ernst G. Beier

I. Before one can ask any sensible questions about psychologicsl,
as vell as medical aspects involved in stoking, one would have to consider
the problem of a proper control group. On the surface, the non-smoking
group sounds like such e group, but upon further thought grave doubts
arise. Smoking hebit, for example, can be seen as merely an aspect of 2
person's behavior and as such be symbolic of a person's more general atti-
tudes. It may characterize a person who channelizes an impulse into
dnmediate yet sccially acceptable gratification. Some non-smokers surely
behave in a similar way, hovever, they chatinelize the impulse into other
activities as, f.e., eating, In the non-smoking group, however, ‘there my
be included @ large nunber of individuals who have a different attitude
toward life and health altogether, who fundamentally posit different values
than the individuals of the "smoking group". While we do not have rigorous
evidence, psychological theory varns us that a habit fits into the psycho-
logical economy of the person's life and that a behavior or a set of habits
perait diagnostic inferences, i.e., is typical of a person ana representa-
tive of other behaviors. If this is accurate, then the non-smoker would not
necessarily be an adequate control group for the smoker. One would have
‘to say that different people are drawn to becoming suckers from those who
reaain non-smokers. This far reaching statement vould.need testing before
We would be able to trust any conclusions reached by the comparison of a
"smoking" with @ “non-smoking” croup.

An excellent test of the proposition is, infact, possible. In the

State of Utah there are small towns fairly isolated from the rest of the
